.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.TH GIAC 1 "2017-02-08"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.\"
.\" TeX users may be more comfortable with the \fB<whatever>\fR and
.\" \fI<whatever>\fR escape sequences to invode bold face and italics,
.\" respectively.
.SH NAME
giac \- computer algebra system
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B giac
.RI [ options ] " files"
.br
.B icas
.RI [ options ] " files"
.br
.B xcas
.RI " files"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\fBgiac\fR is an advanced symbolic and numeric calculator. The console
interface is named \fBicas\fR or equivalently \fBgiac\fR. The corresponding GUI
program is called \fBxcas\fR.

These programs have extensive documentation. The \fIGIAC/XCAS manual\fR is
available in Info format by invoking `info giac`, and in HTML and DVI format in
\fI/usr/share/giac/doc\fR. One can also obtain some help about a keyword like
this, from inside the program:

.P
   0>> ?gcd
.br
   Returns the greatest common divisor of 2 polynomials of several variables
   or of 2 integers or of 2 rationals.
.br
   (Intg(a) or Poly),(Intg(b) or Poly)
.br
   gcd(45,75); gcd(15/7,50/9); gcd(x^2-2*x+1,x^3-1); gcd(t^2-2*t+1,t^2+t-2);
.br
   gcd((x^2-1)*(y^2-1)*z^2,x^3*y^3*z+(-(y^3))*z+x^3*z-z)
.br
   lcm,euler,modgcd,ezgcd,psrgcd,heugcd,Gcd

The equivalent output may be retrieved by invoking (e.g.) `cas_help gcd`.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-\-version
Show version of program.
.TP
.B \-\-texmacs
To call giac/icas from inside Texmacs. Users should not need to do this.
.TP
.B \-\-emacs
To call giac/icas from inside Emacs. Users should not need to do this.
.TP
.B \-\-sage
To call giac/icas from inside Sage. Users should not need to do this.

.SH SEE ALSO
\fBcas_help\fR(1)

.SH AUTHORS
\fBgiac\fR is written by Bernard Parisse.
http://www-fourier.ujf-grenoble.fr/~parisse/giac.html

This manual page was written by Carleos Artime <carleos@pinon.ccu.uniovi.es>
and Ximin Luo <infinity0@debian.org> for the Debian GNU/Linux system (but may
be used by others).

.SH LICENSE
GPLv3+
